#summary How to compile

<wiki:toc />

This documentation was based on the same Chrome instructions: [http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-windows Windows], [http://code.google.com/p/chromium/wiki/MacBuildInstructions Mac OS X], [http://code.google.com/p/chromium/wiki/LinuxBuildInstructions Linux], [http://code.google.com/p/chromium/wiki/AndroidBuildInstructions Android], and [http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-ios iOS]


= Building Sippet =

== Install depot_tools ==

Follow the documentation from Chromium build:
http://dev.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/install-depot-tools.


= Checkout the sources =

== Windows ==

Create a directory to hold your source code. This example assumes c:\sippet, but other names are fine.

*Important:* Make sure the full directory path has no spaces.

In a shell window, execute the following commands:

<code language="xml">
cd c:\sippet
gclient config --name=src http://sippet.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
</code>

If you intend to use Visual Studio 2013, do the following before the next commands:

<code language="xml">
set GYP_GENERATORS=ninja,msvs-ninja
set GYP_MSVS_VERSION=2013
</code>

*Note:* The generator 'msvs' is not supported anymore, so stick to 'msvs-ninja', and don't forget to add depot_tools to your Visual Studio path before executing it.

There is an extra environment variable to set, if you're not a Google developer (otherwise I assume you know what to do at this point):

<code language="xml">
set DEPOT_TOOLS_WIN_TOOLCHAIN=0
</code>

Now, to download the initial code, update your checkout as described in next section.

== Linux ==

Pick a directory for your build.  We will call this directory ~/sippet below.

Check out the code:

<code language="xml">
gamma:~$ cd ~/sippet
gamma:~/sippet$ gclient config --name=src http://sippet.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
</code>

To download the initial code, update your checkout as described in next
section.

== Mac OSX ==

Create a directory to hold the code.  This example assumes the directory is ~/sippet, but other names are fine.  Note that if you have FileVault enabled, you'll want to either disable it or put the code in a folder outside the home directory, as otherwise Xcode will be very slow or hang.  You also probably want to disable Spotlight indexing for that folder (System Preferences -> Spotlight -> mark the folder as private).

From a shell in the Terminal, execute the following commands: 

<code language="xml">
gamma:~$ cd ~/sippet
gamma:~/sippet$ gclient config --name=src http://sippet.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
</code>

To download the initial code, update your checkout as described in next section.


= Update to the latest revision =

The first time you execute gclient, there will be a delay (a minute or so) while it updates the depot tools.

In a shell window, execute the following commands:

<code language="xml">
gamma:~/sippet$ gclient sync
</code>

To update to a specific revision, use

<code language="xml">
gamma:~/sippet$ gclient sync --revision trunk@####
</code>

and the DEPS file will make sure you get the other directories in their
matching forms.

== Linux build requisites ==

Just run:

<code language="xml">
gamma:~/sippet$ ./src/build/install-build-deps.sh
</code>


= Create the build using GYP =

The build is created using gclient 'runhooks' command:

<code language="xml">
gamma:~/sippet$ gclient runhooks
</code>

This will generate the build, usually for Ninja.

= Build it =

Now that you have the build set up, just start compiling. Typically, on any operating system, you would do just:

<code language="xml">
gamma:~/sippet$ ninja -C src/out/Release
</code>

Take a coffee. The output will be located in src/out/Release.